docs: Adds HTTP communication guidance to Angular Skills (#69645)
angular/angular: skills/dev-skills/angular-developer/references/http-client.md

# HTTP communication with `HttpClient` and `httpResource`

Use Angular's HTTP APIs for backend communication so requests participate in dependency injection, interceptors, transfer cache, and security features.

## Setup

In Angular v21 and later, `HttpClient` is available for injection by default. Add `provideHttpClient(...)` only when an app needs to configure HTTP features for a specific injector:

```ts
import {provideHttpClient, withInterceptors} from '@angular/common/http';

export const appConfig = {
  providers: [provideHttpClient(withInterceptors([authInterceptor]))],
};
```

- `HttpClient` uses the fetch backend by default.

> - Use `withXhr()` only when upload progress events are required. Do not use `withXhr()` for server-side rendering.

Reviewer: This will be deprecated I think.

Author: As far as I know, XHR is not going to be deprecated; from my POV, it is still useful and valuable on the client side for upload reporting support.

It is supposedly being deprecated because the `xhr2` library is vulnerable, according to
* https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/69256

Because it can filter Authorization headers without any way to prevent it in SSR, which is why SSR itself is being deprecated.   For more context, this is similar to https://github.com/angular/angular/security/advisories/GHSA-qxh6-94w6-9r5p

Reviewer 2: It is unlikely to be deprecated in a near future. Fetch still doesn't support upload progress report.

- Use `provideHttpClient(...)` for feature configuration such as interceptors, XSRF options, JSONP, XHR, or parent-request delegation.
- Calling `provideHttpClient()` with no features is not required for basic HTTP requests, but it configures the default HTTP feature set for that injector, including Angular's XSRF interceptor.
- Prefer `provideHttpClient(...)` over `HttpClientModule` for feature configuration, especially with multiple injectors.
- Use `withRequestsMadeViaParent()` when a child injector should add interceptors while still delegating to the parent HTTP chain.

> - Prefer CORS over JSONP. Use `withJsonpSupport()` only for legacy APIs that require JSONP.

Author: In fact, I think we should avoid mentioning or directly say never to use JsonP because of the risk of XSS. Or should we still leave it as legacy support?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, let's just remove any mention of JSONP. It belongs in the past.

Author: Wouldn't it be better to emphasize not using it (I say this to avoid confusion or to provide better guidance for the agents)?

Since, for example, if I start a new project (even with Angular skills) it adds `withFetch` for some reason when there's an unrelated problem, I would assume this might happen unexpectedly with JsonP 

EDIT: According to GTP 5.5 using skill-creator, it indicates that it would be better to omit it, so let's go with that option.

Reviewer 2: I would really be surprised if agents would even suggest it. It's really an old tech that isn't used anymore.

## `HttpClient`

Encapsulate backend calls in injectable services, not components:

```ts
import {HttpClient} from '@angular/common/http';
import {Service, inject} from '@angular/core';

@Service()
export class UserService {
  private readonly http = inject(HttpClient);

  getUser(id: string) {
    return this.http.get<User>(`/api/users/${id}`);
  }
}
```

Important rules:

> - `HttpClient` requests are cold `Observable`s. No request is sent until something subscribes. Multiple subscriptions send multiple backend requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `HttpClient` requests are cold `Observable`s. No request is sent until the `Observable` is subscribed to. Multiple subscriptions send multiple backend requests.
```

  return next(req.clone({setHeaders: {Authorization: 'Bearer token'}}));
}

export const appConfig = {
  providers: [provideHttpClient(withInterceptors([authInterceptor]))],
};
```

- Interceptors run in the order listed.
- Request and response objects are mostly immutable; clone before changing them.
- Request and response bodies are not deeply immutable. Avoid in-place body mutation because retries can run the same interceptor again.
- Use `inject()` inside functional interceptors for services.
- Use `HttpContextToken` for per-request metadata that interceptors need but the backend should not receive.
- Use DI-based interceptors only for existing code, and enable them with `withInterceptorsFromDi()`.

## Security

- `HttpClient` strips the XSSI prefix from JSON responses when present.
- `provideHttpClient()` configures XSRF protection by default for mutating relative and same-origin requests. It reads the `XSRF-TOKEN` cookie and sends the `X-XSRF-TOKEN` header.
- The backend must set the XSRF cookie and verify the header. Customize names with `withXsrfConfiguration(...)`; disable only deliberately with `withNoXsrfProtection()`.

## `httpResource`

> Use `httpResource` for reactive reads that should expose request status and value as signals.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence could be improved. 
httpResource isn't just reactive reads: 
- it's an async derivation
- it fetchs over http
- it is indeed reactive, via the signal it exposes.

Author: I hadn't seen it, it's been updated right now

```ts
import {httpResource} from '@angular/common/http';
import {input} from '@angular/core';

export class UserProfile {

>   userId = input.required<string>();

Reviewer 3: The HttpClient example above uses modifiers like private and readonly. Is there a particular reason they're not used here? Otherwise I'd keep the examples consistent

Author: > The HttpClient example above uses modifiers like private and readonly. Is there a particular reason they're not used here? Otherwise I'd keep the examples consistent

I agree, it should be consistent.

> What do you think about also adding examples of how to test this, as described in [angular.dev/guide/http/testing](https://angular.dev/guide/http/testing)?

I'm not sure if we should add testing to this guide because we might have context that would consume more tokens for our agent. I believe everything related to testing should be a separate skill, and it would also be called as required by the user prompt.
